Since 2022, Mandiant has tracked a threat cluster it refers to as UNC5267, which represents the DPRK's efforts to place thousands of its citizens in countries outside of North Korea to pose as remote IT contractors for Western companies.  DPRK IT workers have been observed using stolen identities and identities that appear to be wholly fabricated to support their operations.  To reduce the risk of exposure, once engaged with an unsuspecting employer, DPRK IT workers rely on a variety of techniques to maintain operational functionality while obfuscating their identity and location.  Mandiant has observed suspected DPRK IT workers connect through virtual private network (VPN) sessions associated with the Astrill VPN in 72% of investigations.  This has led suspected DPRK IT workers to rely on in-country 'facilitators' who perform services for a fee.  On the other end of the spectrum of support provided by facilitators, some operate full 'laptop farms,' which host the corporate laptops of their customers for remote access.  Mandiant observed evidence of North Korean IT workers stealing proprietary data from targeted organizations and, following discovery and termination, threatening to release it publicly if the organization did not pay a ransom.  

UNC2428, an Iran-nexus threat actor that conducts cyber espionage-related operations, is suspected to have distributed the MURKYTOUR backdoor through a complex chain of deception techniques in October 2024.  UNC2428's social engineering campaign targeted individuals while posing as a recruitment opportunity from Israeli defense contractor, Rafael.  Individuals who interacted with the campaign were redirected to a site purporting to be part of Rafael's web presence, where users could download a tool to assist with applying for a job.  The installer, named RafaelConnect.exe, was the LONEFLEET installer malware, which presented the user with a GUI front-end through which they could provide personal information and an opportunity to submit a resume.  After the form was submitted, the MURKYTOUR backdoor was launched as a background process. 

